In this talk, we want you to understand
the sustaining power of loyal love.
Because it is this quality, loyal love,
and its power
that will help you face future trials
and challenges with confidence in Jehovah.
Well, you perhaps remember the definition
of loyal love from a written review.
But it’s this: It is love motivated
by a strong commitment and a deep attachment.
And here’s how King David described
the loyal love that existed
between him and Jehovah.
He said at Psalm 63:8:
“I cling to you;
your right hand keeps fast hold on me.”
Now, this is loyal love,
‘I cling to you.
You hold on to me.’
Now, in the first century
—a woman—
a woman who set an outstanding example
of clinging to Jehovah is Anna.
How so?
Let’s find out.
We open our Bibles to Luke chapter 2.
We’re going to read verses 36 and 37
and see what lesson
we can learn and apply to you:
“Now there was a prophetess,
“Anna the daughter
of Phanuel, of Asher’s tribe.
“This woman was well along in years
“and had lived with her husband
for seven years after they were married,
“and she was a widow now 84 years old.
“She was never missing from the temple,
“rendering sacred service night and day
with fasting and supplications.”
Well, here we have it.
Everything we know about Anna is right here.
Luke recorded it.
She was 84 years old
when Luke introduces her to us.
Likely, she hadn’t lived long enough
to become a follower of Jesus,
to be anointed with holy spirit,
or to enjoy preaching
the good news of the Kingdom.
That’s it.
If  we stop right there.
But what if we don’t?
What if we dig deeper?
What will we learn that will help you?
Well, let’s do that.
Anna was born about 86 B.C.E.
When she was 23 years old,
Jerusalem was filled
with violence and divisions.
Jewish leaders
such as the Maccabees are at war.
Roman forces under the leadership
of a soldier named Pompey
came to restore order, and in the process,
some 12,000 Jews reportedly died.
It is possible that Anna’s husband
was one of these victims.
Then when Anna was 47 years old,
the Romans appointed Herod as king of Judea.
Herod?
This man was not a descendant of David.
He was not even an Israelite.
He was an Edomite.
The Edomites
were sworn enemies of true worship.
Now, on top of that,
the hypocritical Jewish religious leaders
made life hard for people,
including widows like Anna.
So now Anna watches
as Jehovah’s “house of prayer,”
the place she cherished,
became “a cave of robbers.”
Pure worship is withering on the vine.
What will Anna do?
She could have been stumbled.
She could have reasoned:
‘I supported true worship all my life.
‘I believed the Messiah would come
and the prophecies would come.
‘I go to the temple every day.
‘I’ve done everything right,
but things have only gotten worse.
‘God let my husband die;
an Edomite is rebuilding the temple.
‘What’s happening?
‘Has Jehovah left us?
Should I leave too?’
Anna could have given up,
walked away, became bitter.
But she didn’t.
Why? Why?
It was the roots of her loyal love,
that sustaining power of loyal love.
It went deep, and it wrapped around Jehovah.
And she had the power to keep clinging to him
under those circumstances.
Anna was determined to serve Jehovah
to the best of her ability.
What did she do?
Again, looking at verse 37:
“She was never missing from the temple,
“[She was in the right place.]
“rendering sacred service night and day
“[doing the right thing]
“with fasting and supplications
[with the right attitude].”
She was doing the right thing
in the right place with the right attitude.
Nothing could stop
this seemingly fragile servant of God
from clinging to her closest Friend, Jehovah.
In effect, Anna was saying,
“I cling to you, Jehovah.”
And her loyal love was noticed.
Chapter 2 and verse 38
reveals that Anna was present
when the baby Jesus
was brought to the temple.
And when she saw that baby,
what did she begin to do in verse 38?
It says: “She came near
and [she] began giving thanks to God
“and speaking about the child
to all who were waiting
for Jerusalem’s deliverance.”
Can you sense her joy?
Can you feel the joy she had
at seeing and, perhaps, even holding
that little baby, the future Messiah?
This was something that this elderly woman
had never expected in her lifetime.
The child in front of her was proof
—tangible proof, concrete evidence—
that Jehovah had not abandoned his people.
And he did not abandon Anna.
So not only had Anna clung to Jehovah
but Jehovah held on to her and
—and  rewarded her.
This is loyal love.
Anna’s faithful record
is so well-known
that some 50 years later,
50 years later or so,
Luke was compelled to write about her.
Where did he get his information?
Who did he talk to?
Did he talk to Mary or interview her
or some of the older ones?
‘There was this woman, Anna.
She was at the temple.
She would never leave.’
We don’t know.
But what we do know is
that Jehovah inspired Luke
to record and to document
her life in His Word
so that we could be taught lessons.
And here we are some 2,000 years later,
and we are using her life as an example
of commitment and unbreakable integrity
for you students to imitate.
So, what can you learn from Anna’s example?
You may suffer loss of one kind or another.
You will come face-to-face
with the imperfections of others.
Your feelings may get hurt,
you might find yourself coping
with an unexpected change
in your life that is not pleasant,
or you may feel that you’re a victim
of an injustice or a serious misunderstanding
from within the organization.
What will you do?
This is what you will do.
You will cling to Jehovah,
and you will experience him
holding on to you.
You cling to him.
He holds on to you.
For example,
I recall a time when a brother
serving in a foreign field
because of a misunderstanding
lost his privileges as an elder.
And he felt the decision was unfair.
He was deeply hurt.
But his wife— He and his wife
never stopped clinging to Jehovah
and their spiritual routine.
Then at a regional convention,
a brother approached him
and thanked him for the talk
that he gave on the program.
Well, he volunteered
in the cleaning department,
but he hadn’t given a talk.
Then the brother
now said to this former elder:
“When I see your smile and positive attitude,
“yes, you gave a talk.
“And it was on loyalty,
and it was loud and clear.”
So the former elder now relates this:
“The experience taught me and my wife
“that every challenge or misfortune
“does not need to represent a threat
“to our spiritual well-being.
“We’ve come to view rejection, failure,
“or being misunderstood as normal episodes
“in the lives of competent, healthy people.
Instead of being crushed, we grew.”
You see, the couple looked
beyond their hardships,
and they clung to Jehovah.
How?
By imitating Anna.
They were ‘never missing from true worship
‘[in the right place],
‘rendering sacred service day and night
‘[doing the right thing]
with fasting and supplications.’
And sometimes
those supplications involve tears
but with the right attitude.
And Jehovah held on to them and never let go.
The brother is still serving
in the foreign field.
He is an elder again
and giving memorable talks.
So, what do we want you
to remember from this talk?
We want you to remember this:
When you come face-to-face with future trials
(and you will)
or challenges in your life
(and you will, this is what happens in life),
be in the right place,
do the right thing
with the right attitude.
By doing this, you declare:
“Jehovah, I cling to you,
and I trust you to hold on to me.”